---
heroImage: /src/assets/images/usopp.png
category: Literature
description: A new visitor arrives...unfortunately.
pubDate: 2025-08-03T04:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Short Story
  - ITEOTB
  - Writing
title: 'In the Eyes of the Beast: Chapter One'
---

Chapter 1: A New Toy

I waited like always on the porch, watching the road. Shotgun in hand,
finger on the trigger, I stared at the horizon, praying no cars would
flash into view. Every day. Every day was like this. Just waiting. It
was all I could do. The soil near the house wasn't fit to grow the crops
that I had. I couldn't scavenge or hunt---all the animals had either
died out or left. The few wild plants that there were couldn't be eaten
anyways. I was fucked---that was the simplest way to put it. Some days I
wondered why I bothered sitting here. Call it duty. Call it the last
vigil of a dead man. Call it whatever you want--I don't give a shit.
Like I said, I'm fucked either way. Stupid. I was so stupid.

I heard it, a feeling of familiar dread creeping over me. My property
was a popular destination for people with no navigation sense. Five
acres of Buttfuck, Nowhere, USA. God bless. If you were driving along in
the backcountry, you would inevitably come upon the signs.

"Lost? GPS taking you in circles? Just follow the bend and take the
first right turn. I'll help you out!"

Stupid as shit. I'm a god-fearing man. I thought it was something a
Christian should do. It gets lonely out here in the boonies. Nothing but
beer, trees, and an awful satellite connection. I used to enjoy the odd
traveler or travelers that would visit. I still had the scars from when
I put up the signs, telling people to leave the property. Luckily, they
hadn't been removed from what I could tell. A red Highlander popped into
view and I gripped the gun tight, running to the makeshift fence. I
fired the first shot straight into the air, yelling and waving as hard
as I could. Blessedly, the car stopped a few feet short. I kept the gun
trained on the car. No need for me to come off as friendly. A woman,
young, blonde, and wearing sunglasses with her hair tied in a ponytail
hopped out. Pretty, and she knew it. Not my type. She looked at me,
unafraid if somewhat bewildered.

"Are you Jonah? What the hell are you doing?" she said, hands planted on
her hips. She wore a pink t-shirt and jeans. Definitely not my type.

"Get the hell off my property, lady. If you came to collect, I ain't
payin'. I'm right self-sufficient, and I ain't afraid of putting holes
in a woman, especially a hard-headed one." I moved toward her, gun still
level with her face. She moved towards me, almost over the line. Damn
woman was fearless.

"Your cousin Jack asked me to check on you on my way back up to Detroit.
He said you'd let me stay the night, but taking a look at you," she
said, wrinkling her nose at me, "I don't think I want to. You look like
shit. What's with all the scars? The cuts? Lose a fight with a
lawnmower?"

I cocked the gun. Fucking Jack. Of course that blessed dipshit would
give me grief even now.

"Go back the way you came, drive two miles, take a left, cross the train
tracks and you'll see a motel called The Cherokee Inn. Tell 'em Jonah
sent you, and you'll get whatever you need." I hoped they still owed me.
Been a hot minute since I left the property. "Now get the hell out of
here, and tell Jack to mind his own damn business."

She stepped over the line. I froze, holding my breath, straining my
ears. Nothing. I must have looked funny, because she looked at me
strangely.

"Ok. You're a fucking weirdo. I'll have to take you up on those
directions. Thanks," she said, stepping back over the line, walking to
her car. I felt it. It was coming. Somehow, she was part of it, now. I
shot her tires. She whirled, furious, screaming, "What the *fuck* are
you doing? You crazy ass hillbilly, that is my car!"

"Get over here, now! In the house!" I said, stepping through the fence
and grabbing her wrist. She fought me. What a dumbass. Who tries to
fight someone holding a shotgun? The closer we got to the house, the
less intense the feeling was. I could feel its approach when it was
coming most of the time. I had to practically drag her towards the end
as she scratched and tried to bite me. Luckily, she wasn't the biggest
girl, and even malnourished, I was still a fairly strong guy. As we
reached the porch, with me dragging her up the two wooden steps, the
feeling left completely. Safe.

For now.

I looked up at the sky. Dusk soon, then night. Tonight wasn't going to
be comfortable, sure as shit in a toilet.

"What in God's name---are you insane? You fucking lunatic---let go of
me!" she hollered. I complied, letting her drop to the ground in a heap.
I stood guard by the steps, not giving her the chance to run.

"Now listen here," I said, as serious and as intimidating as I could
make myself. It must have worked, because she shut up, staring at me
curiously, "You asked for this, not me. Now we both have to deal with
it. I'll explain it to you later. For now, we need to prepare for
tonight."

"Whoa whoa," she said, backing away from me, "I don't know what the hell
you are thinking is going to happen, but\--"

"No!" I said in disgust, "Jesus lady, what the hell is your deal? I'm
not interested in you like that at all. Christ on a stick." Strangely,
instead of relaxing her, my words just made her even more pissy with me.

"Oh, like you're such hot stuff? Like I said, you look like shit, and,"
she sniffed the air, "You smell like it too. You know what a bath is?"

Oh man. As much as I hated to say it, I could not wait to see her face
the next day when she realized what kind of shit-storm she had walked
into. Uppity bitch. "Look, I ain't got the amenities most folk are used
to at the moment. Things have been\...not the best. You're just gonna
have to deal. There's a creek I get to use sometimes for bathing, but
it's real rare that I get the opportunity. I got some spare food for
you, and we can figure out the sleeping situation and all that, but\--"

"Whoa, again," she said, shaking her head, "What the hell makes you
think I have any intention of staying here? I think a nice country motel
sounds much better than this shit heap you dragged me into. It's a
shame," she said, sighing, "It's a beautiful house. How'd a creep like
you come by it?"

"Won it in a bet. Coulda got the Ferrari too, but I called."

She rolled her eyes at me, "Okay smartass. How'd you really get it?"

"Same as every guy my age that comes by five acres of land. Daddy left
it to me when he croaked. What a saint he was."

"So your dad leaves you five acres of land, and you decide to retire to
the countryside and lure people here, telling them to leave, shoot their
car and then drag them to your porch? Where are the dead bodies buried?"

"You know," I said, starting to get real irritated, "For someone who
thinks she's in the clutches of a grade-A psycho, you're awful calm.
Don't think I'm the only strange one here."

"I just don't see the point in whining about my situation. I'd much
rather annoy you until you lower your guard enough for me to escape. See
how friendly we're getting?" she said, flashing me a smile. I rolled my
eyes at her, then pointed the gun at her again, motioning for her to go
inside, "Alright. Now get in the house."

"Fine," she said, folding her arms and turning around, beginning to walk
forward. She pushed open the damaged door, window still shattered. She
looked at the tarp taped over the large hole next to the door and said,
"What's the deal with this? You sleepwalk and run into shit?"

"No," I said quietly, remembering that first night. "Not me." She went
silent, walking forward. My living room was at least presentable. The TV
played, showing the weather forecast for Indiana. My rocking chair and
couch were decently clean, and I was damn proud of that. A quaint little
green rug tied it all together, and she looked around, noting
everything.

"Well, definitely looks like a serial killer lives here. Really, a green
rug? Are you colorblind?" she said.

"Didn't your momma ever tell you if you ain't got nothin' good to say
don't say it?"

"No, she told me always be honest, and treat others the way you want to
be treated. I'm just trying to do that," she said, batting her eyes
mockingly at him.

"So, you want me to treat you like hot dogshit, then?" I said, smirking.
"Cool. I can do that." She made an irritated sound in her throat.
"Alright," I said, pointing the gun to the stairs, "Up you go. We need
to grab some sheets and a blanket from the closet. It's starting to get
cold outside at night."

"Then sleep inside? That's what a house is for, you redneck." she said.

"Just go up the damn stairs," I said, starting to run out of patience.
She grumbled to herself, but she went, grabbing the railing. We went
upstairs, grabbing the extra sheets and covers. I made her hold them.

"Some gentleman you are." she said, grumbling even more as we walked
back downstairs.

"I'm holding a gun, lady. You can manage, I'm sure."

"Not lady. Kate. God, you hicks\..."

"Alright, Kate. Let's see what I have left over for dinner." I placed
the blankets on the couch and had her walk to the fridge to open it.

"Not a lot here," she said, irritated, "You're a real great host.
There's just beer and\... what is this? A McDonald's bag? Why the he-?"

"Let's not get into that now. I think there's a half-eaten burger in
there. You can heat that up if you want. If not, give it here."

"Yeah, I'll pass," she said, giving it to me. I walked to the microwave
and opened the bag. It was a bonafide chicken sandwich. Hot damn. I
threw it in the microwave, devouring some of the cold fries. Kate looked
at me with disgust and confusion.

"What's up with your situation here? It's tragic. You broke or
something?" she gasped, "Are you some kind of killer squatter?"

"No\--Jesus, la-, Kate," I said hurriedly, seeing her face darken, "I'm
a god-fearing Christian. I don't kill nobody."

"Good to know," she said, walking towards the door. I pointed the gun at
her and said, "I will shoot you, Kate!"

"No, you won't" she said, walking out the door, "Or are you a lyin'
Christian, too?"

What a bitch. I followed her out of the door, running as she did,
setting the shotgun down inside.

"Kate!" I yelled, trying to catch up. She was goddamn fast for a
city-girl. Or maybe not eating properly for several months wasn't good
for your body. Hell, I ain't a doctor, don't ask me. "Stop, please! You
don't know what you're doing!"

"Yes, I do," she said, whirling her keys, "Would you calm down? I'm just
getting some food out of my car. I'm not starving to death out here."

"You can't get it!" I screamed desperately. I felt its gaze, its focus
constricting and tightening on us as we approached the line. "It's not
safe."

She kept walking. I put on the gas, trying to reach her. Not again. I
just couldn't watch it happen again. A warning roar sounded as she
reached the fence, a little before the line itself. It was low, and far
away, but it made her pull up short. The feeling lessened, but stayed,
as if it was waiting to make sure of something. She turned back towards
me, no longer interested in her car.

She looked at me, plainly disturbed, "What was that? Sounded
like\...like a T-rex or something. What kind of animal makes that
noise?" I didn't have an answer that would appease her. I just shook my
head, lips moving but nothing coming out. I took a deep breath, closed
my eyes, then opened them back up.

"Back in the house. Now, please." I said, still feeling its gaze. It was
intent, but not threatening. Almost curious, if it was capable of that.

"Ok," she replied, not saying anything else as we walked back together.
I never felt its gaze, its presence fade. It still wanted something of
us.

"What's going on here?" she said, whispering as we sat in the living
room. "I\... I felt it earlier, but I thought I was just imagining
things. Paranoid from being in the boonies. But after that---I-I mean,
like, what the fuck? What the fuck is really going on here? I can feel
it still. It's like something is staring at me, watching me even now.
You look like you know exactly what I'm talking about." I just couldn't
keep the pity off of my face. I wanted to tell her, but she wasn't going
to believe me. And I couldn't blame her. It was just something you had
to see for yourself.

"So, you live in Detroit, you said?" I asked. She stared at me for a
moment, allowing me to change the subject with a short nod.

"Yes." she replied.

"Rough city. Never been, but I seen 8 Mile. Great movie."

"Wow, I've never heard any of those words in that exact order before,"
she said, folding her arms, but relaxing a little.

"What do you do?"

"I am the lead project coordinator for a financial firm."

"Ah, that explains that," I said, nodding to myself.

"Explains what?" she said.

I pointed at her butt, "That huge stick up your ass." She snorted,
chuckling softly. I smiled. God, I had been so lonely. It had been a
month or two since the last time I had spoken with anyone. I saw the
last bit of sunlight start to fade, and my smile vanished. I got up,
digging the mattress out from behind the sofa and taking it outside.

She followed me, "You're serious about sleeping outside." she said, not
asking. "I know you can feel it watching too. Why, then?"

"Please, I promise I will answer every question in the morning. Let's
just get through tonight first."

"Will we need the gun?" She pointed at the shotgun inside.

"There's no point. It'll just make things worse," I said grimly. I could
tell that didn't comfort her, but you got to pick your battles. I didn't
want her getting any bright ideas after things started. I put the
mattress on the porch, a dusty outline on the wood already. I went back
inside and grabbed the sheets and blankets. I grabbed her a pillow
sitting on the rocking chair, too. That done, I motioned for her to sit
on the mattress. The wind was still. It was silent in the woods around
us.

"Alright," I said urgently. I had to make her understand, had to keep
her from doing anything stupid. It was coming early. I could feel it
approach. "Don't say anything from this point forward. I'm dead serious.
I don't know what's up with it today, but we need to be careful. Just
let it do what it is going to do. Remember that. Just get through
tonight. Try to sleep, if you can. I'll stay up tonight. Just\...just
try to remember, things could be worse. I'm sorry. I know this doesn't
make sense. I know you're probably scared as all hell. I wish I had
known how to scare you off. You just have to get through tonight."

I was terrible at consoling people. The combination of my words, tone,
and face must have shot her nerves, because she only nodded and clutched
the blankets tightly, knuckles white. I didn't like the way fear looked
on her. It just didn't fit. Stupid. I was so damn stupid.

When it came, it was like Jurassic Park. We felt the ground shake. All
we needed was a cup of water. Night had fully set in, and we couldn't
see a goddamn thing. I was glad for that. Even after all this time,
seeing it clearly made my heart race something fierce. I couldn't
imagine how she would feel if she actually got to really see it. We saw
it approach, coming from the tree-line. Ten feet tall, near as I could
figure. Its arms were long and frail-looking, but I knew from previous
experiences that looks were deceiving. Its chest was tall and skinny,
and you could tell its ribs were pressed against its skin. Its legs
almost looked like a human's. They were well-proportioned somehow---the
only part of its body that made any sense. You couldn't see the rest of
it. Like I said, it was better that way. I still remember when I saw its
cold gaze in the light of day. I wouldn't ever forget.

I stood at the front of the porch, right at the top of the steps. The
mattress was behind me, and I felt Kate grab my hand with a grip like
death. Blessedly, she stayed silent. There was nothing to do but wait.
We watched it lumber forward. It took its time. We weren't going
anywhere. It stopped a little in front of the steps, watching us, face
obscured in the night. Clouds floated by in the night sky, uncaring.
Every time, I wondered if this would be the time it let its rage go a
little too far, if this was the time it dashed my head against the
ground and spilled my brains out. It was smart. It was expectant. It
knew I knew the drill. I walked forward, calm. I knew what it was going
to do. I just had to accept it. I let it happen. I stopped at the bottom
of the steps. I stared straight forward. It smelled like\...like
carrion. Like death. Like someone made a stew of shit, ate it, then shit
it out and poured some month-old garbage on top. It was rank, if you
couldn't tell. I was used to it, and I still almost retched. I heard its
movement, limbs creaking as if it were a tree. Yes. Just had to detach
myself.

It roughly pet my head, like a baby petting a dog, unaware that it was
hurting it trying to be loving. It picked me up afterwards, easily
holding me in its massive, rock-solid hands, almost squeezing the breath
from me. It brought me close, the stench so overpowering I did throw up.
I kept it in my mouth, though, swallowing. It didn't like a mess, even
if it did smell like shit. It rubbed its sandpaper cheeks against mine,
cutting me, blood dripping down onto my shirt. I closed my eyes. Just
get through it. It threw me roughly to the porch, like a child done with
a toy. I fucked up my knee and had the wind driven from me, but I was
alright otherwise. Got off pretty decently, all things considered. Kate
was next.

It waited again. Kate wouldn't move. Fuck. She was going to make this
horribly worse. I had to do something. I had to get her to move without
talking. It really hated when people, well, I guess that would be just
me, spoke. It started growling, a low throaty noise that made my hair
stand on end. It reached forward and grabbed me, and I braced myself for
a beating.

"Make." it said. I froze. It could *talk*? It threw me against Kate, and
we rolled together. I was on top of her, staring at her eyes in the
dark, our faces inches apart on the ground.

"Make." it said again. The growling began. What the fuck did that mean?
Did\...did it want me to make her get up? I looked into Kate's eyes, and
she gave me a shake of her head. The damn woman was going to get me, or
herself, or both of us killed. I got up, grabbing her hand to try to
pull her up.

I whispered as softly as I could, leaning in close, "Kate, please for
the love of God, get up and just let it do this. This can get much
worse." I saw her eyes widen. It grabbed me again, this time slamming me
against the grass hard. I felt bones crack. My head swam, nausea
flooding me, my ears ringing. It picked me up and pulled me close,
roaring loud into my face so fiercely I felt my hair blow backwards, and
I struggled not to vomit from its terrible breath. It threw me back on
the porch. It sat down, waiting again in that unnaturally calm way.
Thankfully, she got up, and it began stroking her head softly. Then, it
did something I could never have expected. I swear by all that is holy
and good in this world that it started humming to her. Was it trying to
fucking comfort her?

It grabbed her and gave her the face-rub routine. I felt like I was
going to pass out, blood trickling out of my nose. I probably had a
concussion. I definitely wasn't going to sleep tonight. It walked
forward, reaching a large hand past me and grabbing the mattress. It
placed it on the grass and sat in front of it, putting Kate on it,
tucking her in with the covers, putting the pillow under her head. She
looked like she might faint. It looked at me then. I could see its eyes,
black like stones, glinting in the moonlight. I felt the terror grip me.
It waited. It wanted me to do something, and its patience was just about
up. I needed to figure out what it wanted. Obviously, it didn't want me
on the porch. I got up, pain flaring as I stood. Yep. Ribs were probably
dislocated. Fuck it. I walked forward, wanting to cry and yell from the
pain. Tears leaked out of my eyes. It watched my progress. I reached the
mattress. I sat down on it. It started growling. I stood up immediately.
It started moving, hand reaching towards me.

"NO!" Kate yelled.

Everyone froze. Even the thing was shocked. She grabbed my hand and
pulled me down into the bed with her. We laid there, facing each other.
And we stayed there. And it stayed there. For six hours, we stayed like
that. She watched me. I watched her. It watched us. The sun rose, birds
stirring in the distance, singing a beautiful song we would never know
the lyrics to. I heard them take off, flying somewhere else. I wished I
could trade places with them. God, I fucking wished that more than
anything in the world. We laid there, the thing, the beast watching us,
coveting us like we were precious toys. Toys it would break in anger and
discard without a second thought. Some days, on nights like this, I
wondered why I didn't just scream one last time in defiance and let it
finish me. At this point, I was a dead man, and now she was dead too. We
were caught in its eyes, in the beast\'s gaze, and it wasn't going to
ever let us go. We heard it move off, walking back into the woods, to
wherever it went during the day.

But it watched us. Today, it would never stop watching us. We felt its
gaze even after we couldn't feel the ground shaking anymore. Kate cried
freely, tears splattering the makeup on her face. She did better than I
expected, honestly. The sun shone down, the clouds parting for it. I
stroked her hand as I closed my eyes, telling her softly to try and
sleep. I heard her sob quietly all the way until sleep took her. I
opened my eyes, staring at the tree-line as the wind of a new day blew
through.